Data pipelines, sometimes also
called Data Cascais refers to
when your data has
multiple steps of
processing before getting
to the final output.
There's some best practices
relevant for managing
such data pipelines.
Let's start with an example.
Let's say that given
some user information
you would like to predict
if a given user is
looking for a job,
because if they're
looking for a job
at this moment in time,
you may want to surface job ads
or other pieces of perfectly
useful information to them.
Given raw data such
as the data on top,
there's often some pre-processing
or data cleaning before
the data is fed to
learning algorithm that
then tries to predict, why?
Are they looking for a job?
The data cleaning may include
things like spam cleanup,
such as removing
the spam accounts,
and maybe also user ID merge
which we talked about
in an earlier video.
For the sake of this example,
let's say that spam clean-up and
user ID merge are done
with just scripting.
Explicit sequences of
instructions that tells your code
when is an account
to be considered
spammy and when should
two user IDs be merged.
These systems could be built
using machine learning
algorithms as
well which makes them even
a little bit more
complex to manage.
Now, when you have strips
for the data cleaning,
one of the issues you run into is
replicability when you take
these systems into
production deployment.
Let's say during the
development of the system,
you have input data fed through
pre-processing scripts,
and the pre-processed data
is fed to a machine
learning algorithm,
and after some amount of work,
your learning algorithm
does well on the test set.
Printed development
phase, you may have seen
that pre-processing scripts
can be quite messy.
It may be you hacking
something up,
processing data,
mailing a file to a different
member of your team,
having them have a few
incantations in Python or
some scripting language to
process the data and having them,
mail the process
data back to you.
When you take this
system to production,
you then have new data
which has to be fed
through a similar set of
scripts because this data is
going to be fed to the same
machine learning algorithm.
Your machine-learning
algorithm on
this data is what will
run in your product.
The key question is,
if you're pre-processing was
done with a bunch of strips,
spread out on a bunch of
different people's
computers and laptops,
how do you replicate
the strips to
make sure that the
input distribution to
a machine learning
algorithm was the
same for the development data
and the production data?
I find that the amount of effort
that you should
invest to make sure
that the pre-processing
scripts are highly
replicable can depend a little
bit on the face of the project.
I know that it may be
fashionable to say that
everything you do should
be 100 percent replicable,
and I'll probably
get some criticism
for not hewing to that line,
but I find it a
lot of projects do
go through a proof of
concept or POC phase,
and then a production phase
where during the proof
of concept phase,
the primary goal is
just to decide if
the application is workable
and worth building and deploying.
My advice to most teams
is during the proof of
concept phase focus on getting
the prototype to work.
It's okay if some of the data
pre-processing is manual.
If the project succeeds,
you need to replicate all of
this pre-processing later.
My advice would be
take extensive notes,
write extensive
comments to increase
the odds that you can replicate
all this pre-processing later,
but this is also not
the time to get bogged
down in tons of process just to
ensure replicability
when the focus
is really to just decide
if the application is
workable and is worth
taking to the next phase.
Once you decided that
this project is worth
taking to production,
then you know it's
going to be really
important to do the replica
any pre-processing strips.
In this phase, that's
when I would use
more sophisticated
tools to make sure
the entire data
pipeline is replicable.
This is when tools
which can be a little
bit more heavyweight,
but tools like TensorFlow
Transform, Apache beam,
Airflow, and so on
become very valuable.
In fact, you will
learn more about
TensorFlow Transform later
into specialization as well.
In this video, you learned
about data pipelines,
and when to invest in
their replicability.
It turns out many
applications have
significantly more
complex data pipelines
than what we saw in this video.
For those settings, you also have
to think about what metadata you
want and perhaps also keep track
and take care of data
provenance and lineage.
Let's go on to the next video
to look at these topics.